feat: add mcp page to sdk website (#702)
kubeflow/sdk: docs/source/mcp-server/index.rst

> Introduction

Reviewer: Title Introduction renders as the browser/sidebar label. Other pages use the product name (Training Models, Spark, Model Registry). Can we rename this to to MCP Server to align with existing docs page format ?

Author: Hmm, make sense. Updated it.

custom agent) plan, submit, monitor, and manage training jobs conversationally, without users
needing to learn Kubernetes or the Kubeflow SDK directly.

It is developed and released as a separate project from the SDK — see
`KEP-936 <https://github.com/kubeflow/community/tree/master/proposals/936-kubeflow-mcp-server>`_
for the design proposal.

Benefits
--------

- **Agent-Native** - Tools are auto-discovered via MCP, with no manual API wiring
- **Guided Workflow** - Phase ordering with next-step hints (Plan → Discover → Train → Monitor)
- **Preview-Before-Submit** - Every mutating operation requires explicit confirmation
- **Security-First** - Persona gating, namespace enforcement, input validation, bearer/JWT auth
- **Multi-Platform** - Auto-detects OpenShift, EKS, and GKE with platform-specific guidance
- **Token-Efficient** - Progressive/semantic modes compress 23 tools into 2-3 meta-tools
- **Extensible** - Plugin architecture for additional Kubeflow clients (optimizer and hub planned)

Installation
------------

Install from source:

.. code-block:: bash

   git clone https://github.com/kubeflow/mcp-server.git
   cd mcp-server
   pip install .

.. note::

>    Once published to PyPI, install with ``pip install kubeflow-mcp``.

Reviewer: This blog will be published to PYPI as well as official MCP registry .. so we should use same installation methods in here ..
SDK install pages lead with PyPI. Lets prefer pip install kubeflow-mcp first.. wdyt?

Author: Apologies but i dont get this point, 
>This blog will be published to PYPI as well as official MCP registry .. so we should use same installation methods in here 

This doc is for sdk website, and nevertheless, the installation method would be same.

We have `pip install kubeflow-mcp` first, right?

Reviewer: I meant .. PyPI is live (0.1.0rc1). Please lead with \pip install kubeflow-mcp` and keep source/Docker as alternatives... drop the "Once published…" note.

Reviewer: release 0.1.0 will land parallel to this web page so.. once published .. not needed

Author: Ok that way, make sense, updated it.

Or run the pre-built multi-arch image published to GHCR on every release:

.. code-block:: bash

   docker run --rm -p 8000:8000 \
     -e KUBEFLOW_MCP_AUTH_TOKEN=my-secret-token \
     ghcr.io/kubeflow/mcp-server:latest

The server listens on ``http://localhost:8000/mcp``. See :doc:`configuration` for environment
variables, authentication, and CLI flags.

Quick Start
-----------

.. code-block:: bash

   kubeflow-mcp serve

> Add it to your agent's MCP client config (HTTP transport):

Reviewer: kubeflow-mcp serve defaults to stdio (ServerConfig.transport). The JSON block below is HTTP .. it will  need --transport http (and auth) or switch the example to the Claude Code stdio registration only.

Author: updated.

To use the HTTP transport instead (e.g. the Docker image, which defaults to HTTP), start the
server with ``--transport http`` and add it to your agent's MCP client config:

.. code-block:: bash

   kubeflow-mcp serve --transport http --auth-token my-secret-token

.. code-block:: json

   {
     "mcpServers": {
       "kubeflow": {
         "url": "http://localhost:8000/mcp",
         "headers": { "Authorization": "Bearer my-secret-token" }
       }
     }
   }

Example: Fine-Tune a Model via AI Agent
----------------------------------------

Once connected, your AI agent can run a complete training workflow through natural language:

.. code-block:: text

   User: "Fine-tune gemma-2b on the alpaca dataset"

   Agent calls: check_compatibility()        → ✅ K8s 1.29, Trainer CRD installed
   Agent calls: get_cluster_resources()      → 4x A100 GPUs available
   Agent calls: estimate_resources("google/gemma-2b") → needs ~16GB GPU, 1x A100
   Agent calls: list_runtimes()              → torchtune-llama, torchtune-gemma, ...
   Agent calls: fine_tune(                   → preview config (confirmed=False)
       model="hf://google/gemma-2b",
       dataset="hf://tatsu-lab/alpaca",

>        runtime="torchtune-gemma-2b"

Reviewer 2: Worth verifying this runtime name against the Trainer 2.2 `ClusterTrainingRuntime` manifests. The code's own canonical example is `torchtune-llama3.2-1b` (`trainer/api/training.py:750`), and validation only checks `runtime.startswith("torchtune")` — so a name that doesn't exist passes MCP-side checks and fails later at the cluster. Same question for `torchtune-llama, torchtune-gemma` on line 99.

   )
   Agent calls: fine_tune(..., confirmed=True) → TrainJob "train-gemma-abc" created
   Agent calls: get_training_logs("train-gemma-abc") → training progress...

Every mutating tool requires ``confirmed=True`` — agents always preview before submitting.

How It Works
------------

1. **Connect** - The server loads Kubeflow SDK clients (``trainer``, with ``optimizer`` and
   ``hub`` planned) and registers their operations as MCP tools
2. **Filter by persona** - The active persona (``readonly``, ``data-scientist``,
   ``ml-engineer``, ``platform-admin``) determines which tools are visible to the caller
3. **Preview, then confirm** - Mutating tools return a preview when called without
   ``confirmed=True``, and only apply the change on a confirmed follow-up call
4. **Guide by phase** - Tool responses include next-step hints so agents follow the
   Plan → Discover → Train → Monitor workflow instead of guessing what to call next

Key Concepts
------------

**Persona**: A server-side role filter restricting which tools are visible to a caller.

> Defaults to ``readonly``, which hides all write tools.

Reviewer 2: "hides all write tools" is true but incomplete — `readonly` also hides three read-only tools (`wait_for_training`, `inspect_crd`, `inspect_controller`), which live in the `data-scientist`/`ml-engineer` personas.

```suggestion
**Persona**: A server-side role filter restricting which tools are visible to a caller.
Defaults to ``readonly``, which exposes only planning, discovery, monitoring, and health tools.
```

Same wording at `configuration.rst:111`.
